Adding a blog post for windows memory pressure eviction (#48535)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2024-12-11-windows-memory-pressure-eviction.md

---

> layout: blog
> title: "Windows Memory Pressure Eviction"
> slug: windows-memory-pressure-eviction
> date: 2024-12-11
> draft: true
> author: >
>   Mark Rossetti (Microsoft)

Reviewer: OK, try this:
```suggestion
layout: blog
title: "Windows Memory Pressure Eviction"
slug: windows-memory-pressure-eviction
date: 2024-12-09
author: >
  Mark Rossetti (Microsoft)
```
and change the path in the front matter to match the new date.

   Consistency in how memory usage is tracked and enforced is essential for workload stability.

2. **Paging (swap) is automatically enabled on Windows**, and it plays an essential role in the operating system's memory management. Disabling paging is not recommended because it can lead to system instability.

## Eviction thresholds

By default, Windows nodes have a "hard" eviction threshold of 500Mi
(kubelet setting `--eviction-hard=memory.available<500Mi`).
This means that if the system's availble commit memory is less than 500 Mi,
the kubelet will try to evict pods.

For more information on configuring memory-pressure based eviction and understanding the eviction signals and thresholds,
refer to the official Kubernetes documentation on [memory-pressure-eviction](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/node-pressure-eviction/#eviction-signals-and-thresholds).

## Monitoring commit memory for Windows nodes

Understanding the distinction between _Working Set_ and _Commit_ memory and being able to monitor both is critical for maintaining the stability of individual Pod workloads and the entire Windows node.

> Currently, `kubectl top` continues to report Working Set memory. As a result, a Pod may be evicted for exceeding its memory requests or encounter memory allocation failures due to exceeding its `CommitLimit`, even when the _Working Set_ memory usage appears to be well within the expected bounds. This discrepancy can lead to confusion.

Reviewer: Did you mean:
```suggestion
Before v1.31, the values you saw from `kubectl top` reported Working Set memory. As a result, a Pod could have been evicted for exceeding its memory requests, or a Pod might have encountered memory allocation failures (due to exceeding its `CommitLimit`) - and this could happen even when the _Working Set_ memory usage appeared to be well within the expected bounds. This discrepancy could have led to confusion.
```

It's not clear if v1.31 improved things.

Starting with v1.31, Windows nodes report the global `CommitTotal` and `CommitLimit` for each node through the `/stats/summary` API endpoint. This information is available under the `windows-global-commit-memory` named object in the `systemContainers` collection:

> ```json=

Reviewer: Use `console` here because this is not a JSON document
